Now that we are able to like different tweets,
the next functionality we want to add to
our application is the ability to add a new tweet.
So, what we'll do in this video is we will just build out
the UI for being able to compose a new tweet and then in the next video,
we will set up our actions and our reducers to handle composing a new tweet.
So, what we'll do first is let's head over to our components and make a new file here.
We will call it new tweet.js and then this will just be a normal component.
So, here we just have the basic UI for this component for right now let's go
ahead and just put new tweet and then inside of our app
what we want to do first so we can see this as we build
it out is let's import that and now instead of rendering dashboard,
let's render our new tweet component.
So, if this is working what we should see here.
So we see our new tweet component here.
And now what we want to do and again this is going to handle
the UI for creating a new tweet, so,
this is going to be a controlled component meaning react is going to be in control of
the text of the input fields here and the reason for
that is because you'll notice that when there is no text,
this submit button right here is disabled but when we type in it,
we change the UI and then we enable the 'Submit' button.
So, whenever you are updating UI based on the current state of your component,
you want to use a controlled component.
So, text is going to start out as an empty string and then we will need
a handle change method which is going to take in an event,
it's then going to grab the specific value of the text
filled by grabbing the target.value property on
the event and then we can call setState and update the text of our local state.
This is the first time in this project that we are
using react component state over redux state and the reason we're doing
that is because well it's just easier and putting
this form state inside of redux wouldn't give us any benefits,
in fact, it would actually just be more complicated to do that
rather than putting things inside of the component state.
If this state was going to be shared with
a few different components or if we
needed to pass the state down as prompts a few different layers,
then we might think about using redux state but for now it
doesn't make sense at all just because we have component state,
we can use it, it's perfectly fine to use and we're not
using this component state anywhere else inside of our application.
So, now that we have handle change,
let's make the last method we will make,
call handleSubmit and for now all we are going to
do is we will call event.preventDefault,
we'll then grab the text from the state.
Eventually, what we want to do is add tweet to
the store and we'll
console that log just so when we set this up we can make sure that it's working,
and then once all this is finished,
we want to go ahead and make sure that we reset
the text field to just an empty string so that looks pretty good.
So, now we have our two methods here as well as our component state.
The next thing we want to do is actually build out
the UI for this component and as a reminder,
the UI that we're building is this right here so we will have
a header as well as the text area and then the submit button.
So, first let's have that header.
So, we will say h3 we'll give this a class name of
center and this is going to say compose new tweet,
then below that we want to have our form.
We will give this a class name of 'New Tweets' and then when this form is submitted,
we want to invoke the handle submit method that we already created right here.
And then now what this form needs is a text area.
We will give this a few different props so
the placeholder will be what's happening which is like Twitter does,
the value is going to be text and we can go ahead and destructure that up here.
That's going to come from the start state.
When this input field changes,
we want to run the handleChange method we created earlier which
will be responsible for updating the state of our component.
We'll give it a class name of
text area and then we will also give it a max-length of 280.
So, that looks pretty good. What we also want to do here is eventually
when we get to the point where there are less than 100 characters left,
what we want to see is this little section right
here warning the user that they are running out of space.
So, what we can do up here
is make a variable called tweetLeft that is just going to be 280 minus
the current text length and then now what we can say is if
the tweet length is less than or equal to 100,
then what we want to do is show this div here we will have a class name of
tweet length and then we will just show how many characters they have left,
and then finally what we want to do is render a button
which will say 'Submit' and then on this button we want to have a few different props.
We'll give it a class name of button,
the type is obviously going to be Submit,
and it will be disabled if text is equal to an empty string.
So, this looks pretty good here.
Let's go ahead and test this out.
So, what we should see here is when we hit 'Submit',
we don't add it to our story yet because we'll do that in the next video,
but we do have the text right here and it looks like everything is working as far as
getting the text from the component and being able to log it inside the console.
Now the only other change I want to make is just a little note to ourself.
When we submit our new tweet
what we want to do is also redirect the user to the 'Home' view.
So, right here what I'm going to do is just make myself a little comment,
so that we can remember this later when we start adding in React Router.
So, what we want to do is redirect to the home view if submitted.